You might call Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) a philosophy, or, if you’re more grounded, a set of patterns and principles for running large systems. SRE has been a hot buzzword, and it has had a pronounced influence on industry practices. SRE is open to interpretation and application to particular circumstances, but its core is about automating systems and application administration and designing for repeatable deployments in the pursuit of increased reliability.

An Operator is like an automated Site Reliability Engineer for its application. It encodes the skills of an expert administrator in software. An Operator can manage a cluster of database servers, for example. It knows the details of configuring and managing its application, and it can install a database cluster of a declared software version and number of members. More distinctively, an Operator continues to monitor its application as it runs, and it can back up its data, recover from failures, and upgrade its application over time &ndash; automatically. Cluster users employ `kubectl` and other standard tools to work with Operators and the applications they manage, because Operators extend the Kubernetes control plane and API.

In its simplest form, an Operator adds an endpoint to the Kubernetes API, called a Custom Resource (CR), along with a control plane component which watches the key. This Operator, running in the control plane, can then take action based on the key’s state.

In this workshop you will learn in more detail how an Operator works, is implemented and is used by a user of the Kubernetes cluster.
